README.md, before:

# http-auth-middleware

This repo is an example of how to compose a middleware component with a business logic component.

## Repo structure

The `github-oauth/` directory contains an API for using GitHub oauth in an application. It consists of

1. The `authorize` handler which kicks off the github oauth flow allowing a user to give permissions to a GitHub app
2. The `callback` handler which GitHub uses as the redirect url in the oauth flow. The callback handler is responsible for taking a code from the URL param and exchanging it for authentication token from GitHub for the user.
3. The `authenticate` handler which validates a given access token in an incoming request with the GitHub user API.
4. The `login` handler which returns a login button.

The `example/` directory contains a Spin application which consists of one http handler which returns an HTTP response contains `Hello, Fermyon!` in the body. In the `spin.toml` file, the component build instructions point to a `build.sh` script which builds the example component and composes it with the github-oauth component.


## Demo instructions

### Pre-requisites

- Install [cargo component v0.4.0](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component):

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component --tag v0.4.0 cargo-component --locked
```

- Install [wasm-tools](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools): 

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools wasm-tools --locked
```

- Install latest [Spin](https://github.com/fermyon/spin)

- Create an OAuth App in your [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers). Set the callback URL to `http://127.0.0.1:3000/login/callback`. Accept defaults and input dummy values for the rest of the fields.
    - Save the Client ID
    - Generate a new Client Secret and save that as well

### Build the components and run the demo

```bash

# Build the middleware
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release

# Build and run the example
spin up --build -f example -e CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> -e CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>

# Open http://127.0.0.1:3000/login in a browser
```

### Running with Wasmtime

This component can be universally run by runtimes that support WASI preview 2's [HTTP proxy
world](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/blob/main/wit/proxy.wit). For example, it can be
served directly by Wasmtime, the runtime embedded in Spin. First, ensure you have installed the
[Wasmtime CLI](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/releases) with at least version
`v14.0.3`. We will use the `wasmtime serve` subcommand which serves requests to/from a WASI HTTP
component.

Unfortunately, `wasmtime serve` does not currently support setting environment variables in
component, so we cannot pass environment variables at runtime as we did with Spin. Instead, set the
`CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` oauth app secrets generated in the [prerequisites](#pre-requisites)
step as environment variables and build the oauth component with the `compile-time-secrets` feature
flag. The flag ensures the environment variables are set in the component at compile time so they
are no longer needed from the WebAssembly runtime. It is not recommended to embed secrets in production applications; rather, environment variables should be passed at runtime if the WebAssembly Host supports it. This is [configurable with Spin and Fermyon Cloud](#using-runtime-environment-variables).

```bash
export CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> 
export CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release --features compile-time-secrets
# Compose the auth component with the business logic component using wasm-tools
cd example && ./build.sh
# Serve the component on the expected host and port
wasmtime serve service.wasm --addr 127.0.0.1:3000
```

### Configuring the callback URL

Instead of using the default callback URL of `http://127.0.0.1:3000/login/callback`, you can configure the URL in an environment variable that is resolved at build time. This is useful in the case that the component is not running locally, rather in a hosted environment such as Fermyon Cloud.

```sh
export AUTH_CALLBACK_URL=https://http-auth-app.fermyon.app/login/callback
export CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> 
export CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release --features compile-time-secrets
spin deploy -f example 
```

### Using Runtime Environment Variables

Not all WebAssembly runtimes fully support exporting the [`wasi:cli/environment`](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-cli/blob/main/wit/environment.wit) interface to components. Spin, however, does support this and can load environment variables into a component's environment. Simply pass the environment variables during a `spin up`:
```sh
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release
spin up --build -f example -e CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> -e CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
```

To deploy an app to Fermyon Cloud that uses environment variables, you need to [configure them in your `spin.toml`](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/v2/writing-apps#adding-environment-variables-to-components). Update [the example application manifest](./example/spin.toml) to contain your `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables. Since we do not know the endpoint for our Fermyon Cloud application until after the first deploy, we cannot yet configure the `AUTH_CALLBACK_URL`.

```sh
[component.example]
source = "service.wasm"
allowed_outbound_hosts = ["https://github.com", "https://api.github.com"]
environment = { CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID", CLIENT_SECRET = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET" }
[component.example.build]
command = "./build.sh"
```

Now deploy your application.

```sh
$ spin deploy -f example
Uploading example version 0.1.0 to Fermyon Cloud...
Deploying...
Waiting for application to become ready............. ready
Available Routes:
  example: https://example-12345.fermyon.app (wildcard)
```

In the example deploy output above, the app now exists at endpoint `https://example-12345.fermyon.app`. This means our callback URL should be `https://example-12345.fermyon.app/login/callback`. Configure this in the `spin.toml` with another environment variable:

```sh
[component.example]
source = "service.wasm"
allowed_outbound_hosts = ["https://github.com", "https://api.github.com"]
environment = { CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID", CLIENT_SECRET = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET", AUTH_CALLBACK_URL = "https://example-<HASH>.fermyon.app/login/callback" }
[component.example.build]
command = "./build.sh"
```

Now, redeploy with another `spin deploy -f example`. Be sure to update your GitHub OAuth App to update the callback URL.

This example uses environment variable to import secrets, since that is a ubiquitous interface and enables cross cloud portability of your component. If you are interested in configuring dynamic secrets that are not exposed in text in your `spin.toml` and can be updated with the `spin cloud variables` CLI, see [Spin's documentation on configuring application variables](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/v2/variables#application-variables).

Commit message:

add instructions for running Go with Wasmtime
Signed-off-by: Jiaxiao Zhou (Mossaka) <duibao55328@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# http-auth-middleware

This repo is an example of how to compose a middleware component with a business logic component.

## Repo structure

The `github-oauth/` directory contains an API for using GitHub oauth in an application. It consists of

1. The `authorize` handler which kicks off the github oauth flow allowing a user to give permissions to a GitHub app
2. The `callback` handler which GitHub uses as the redirect url in the oauth flow. The callback handler is responsible for taking a code from the URL param and exchanging it for authentication token from GitHub for the user.
3. The `authenticate` handler which validates a given access token in an incoming request with the GitHub user API.
4. The `login` handler which returns a login button.

The `example/` directory contains a Spin application which consists of one http handler which returns an HTTP response contains `Hello, Fermyon!` in the body. In the `spin.toml` file, the component build instructions point to a `build.sh` script which builds the example component and composes it with the github-oauth component.


## Demo instructions

### Pre-requisites

- Install [cargo component v0.4.0](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component):

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component --tag v0.4.0 cargo-component --locked
```

- Install [wasm-tools](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools): 

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools wasm-tools --locked
```

- Install latest [Spin](https://github.com/fermyon/spin)

- Create an OAuth App in your [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers). Set the callback URL to `http://127.0.0.1:3000/login/callback`. Accept defaults and input dummy values for the rest of the fields.
    - Save the Client ID
    - Generate a new Client Secret and save that as well

### Build the components and run the demo

```bash

# Build the middleware
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release

# Build and run the example
spin up --build -f example -e CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> -e CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>

# Open http://127.0.0.1:3000/login in a browser
```

### Running with Wasmtime

This component can be universally run by runtimes that support WASI preview 2's [HTTP proxy
world](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/blob/main/wit/proxy.wit). For example, it can be
served directly by Wasmtime, the runtime embedded in Spin. First, ensure you have installed the
[Wasmtime CLI](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/releases) with at least version
`v14.0.3`. We will use the `wasmtime serve` subcommand which serves requests to/from a WASI HTTP
component.

Unfortunately, `wasmtime serve` does not currently support setting environment variables in
component, so we cannot pass environment variables at runtime as we did with Spin. Instead, set the
`CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` oauth app secrets generated in the [prerequisites](#pre-requisites)
step as environment variables and build the oauth component with the `compile-time-secrets` feature
flag. The flag ensures the environment variables are set in the component at compile time so they
are no longer needed from the WebAssembly runtime. It is not recommended to embed secrets in production applications; rather, environment variables should be passed at runtime if the WebAssembly Host supports it. This is [configurable with Spin and Fermyon Cloud](#using-runtime-environment-variables).

```bash
export CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> 
export CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release --features compile-time-secrets
# Compose the auth component with the business logic component using wasm-tools
cd example && ./build.sh
# Serve the component on the expected host and port
wasmtime serve service.wasm --addr 127.0.0.1:3000
```

### Running with Go
First, [install `tinygo`](https://github.com/tinygo-org/tinygo/releases),
version 0.30.0, which is a LLVM-based Go compiler alternative.

Then, [install `wit-bindgen-cli`](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen) rev 1af7e87066854894ab140d2a630a0bc23c8b126f (will update this when a new version is released) with `cargo install wit-bindgen-cli --git https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen --rev 1af7e87066854894ab140d2a630a0bc23c8b126f`, which is a tool for generating Go bindings for WIT interfaces.

Lastly, [install `wasm-tools`](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools/releases/) version 1.0.48, which is a tool for building Wasm components.

```bash
export CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> 
export CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release --features compile-time-secrets
# Compose the auth component with the business logic component using wasm-tools
cd example-go && ./build.sh
# Serve the component on the expected host and port
wasmtime serve service.wasm --addr 127.0.0.1:3000
```

### Configuring the callback URL

Instead of using the default callback URL of `http://127.0.0.1:3000/login/callback`, you can configure the URL in an environment variable that is resolved at build time. This is useful in the case that the component is not running locally, rather in a hosted environment such as Fermyon Cloud.

```sh
export AUTH_CALLBACK_URL=https://http-auth-app.fermyon.app/login/callback
export CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> 
export CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release --features compile-time-secrets
spin deploy -f example 
```

### Using Runtime Environment Variables

Not all WebAssembly runtimes fully support exporting the [`wasi:cli/environment`](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-cli/blob/main/wit/environment.wit) interface to components. Spin, however, does support this and can load environment variables into a component's environment. Simply pass the environment variables during a `spin up`:
```sh
cargo component build --manifest-path github-oauth/Cargo.toml --release
spin up --build -f example -e CLIENT_ID=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID> -e CLIENT_SECRET=<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET>
```

To deploy an app to Fermyon Cloud that uses environment variables, you need to [configure them in your `spin.toml`](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/v2/writing-apps#adding-environment-variables-to-components). Update [the example application manifest](./example/spin.toml) to contain your `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables. Since we do not know the endpoint for our Fermyon Cloud application until after the first deploy, we cannot yet configure the `AUTH_CALLBACK_URL`.

```sh
[component.example]
source = "service.wasm"
allowed_outbound_hosts = ["https://github.com", "https://api.github.com"]
environment = { CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID", CLIENT_SECRET = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET" }
[component.example.build]
command = "./build.sh"
```

Now deploy your application.

```sh
$ spin deploy -f example
Uploading example version 0.1.0 to Fermyon Cloud...
Deploying...
Waiting for application to become ready............. ready
Available Routes:
  example: https://example-12345.fermyon.app (wildcard)
```

In the example deploy output above, the app now exists at endpoint `https://example-12345.fermyon.app`. This means our callback URL should be `https://example-12345.fermyon.app/login/callback`. Configure this in the `spin.toml` with another environment variable:

```sh
[component.example]
source = "service.wasm"
allowed_outbound_hosts = ["https://github.com", "https://api.github.com"]
environment = { CLIENT_ID = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_ID", CLIENT_SECRET = "YOUR_GITHUB_APP_CLIENT_SECRET", AUTH_CALLBACK_URL = "https://example-<HASH>.fermyon.app/login/callback" }
[component.example.build]
command = "./build.sh"
```

Now, redeploy with another `spin deploy -f example`. Be sure to update your GitHub OAuth App to update the callback URL.

This example uses environment variable to import secrets, since that is a ubiquitous interface and enables cross cloud portability of your component. If you are interested in configuring dynamic secrets that are not exposed in text in your `spin.toml` and can be updated with the `spin cloud variables` CLI, see [Spin's documentation on configuring application variables](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/v2/variables#application-variables).
